Add architecture guide for Machine ID (#15566)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/machine-id/architecture.mdx

role's configured permissions. 

In the case of Machine ID, the bot user is assigned a bot role, which includes 
permissions to impersonate the roles that the user has configured.

## Onboarding

Onboarding is the process by which `tbot` initially authenticates with the 
Teleport auth service in order to receive credentials.

Machine ID leverages the existing Token resource within Teleport, with the
token containing an additional `botName` field that identifies the bot user
associated with the token. 

Machine ID currently supports two methods of joining that have some key
differences.

Static Token:

- The name of the token is the only value needed to join. This value is a
  secret and must be handled securely.
- Once used, the token resource self-destructs. This means it can only be used 
  to join a single bot to a Teleport cluster.
- The certificates exchanged for the token are 
  [renewable](#renewable-certificates).

Dynamic join tokens (e.g AWS IAM):

- These tokens rely on some kind of external system that allows the bot to
  prove it is allowed to join the cluster. The name of the token identifies the
  Token resource in Teleport that contains the configuration.

> - The token can be used to join as many bots as you want.

Reviewer: Maybe it's clear as is, but would it help to specifically call out these don't have the self-destruct behavior?

Author: I'm a little concerned that exhaustively listing these will eventually be verbose (as we will support IAM, GCP, Github, Gitlab and more in coming months...). We should have another page on the docs that lists these exhaustively and documents their configuration that we can link out to.

Author: f4ba44362

## Renewable certificates

Human Teleport users are not able to renew their credentials without
re-authenticating. As Machine ID must work without manual human intervention,
bots that have joined using static tokens are granted credentials that are
marked as renewable. This means that the bot can use these credentials to
fetch a new set of credentials with an expiry date further in the future.

In order to mitigate the risk of bot user credentials being stolen, and then
continually renewed by a malicious actor, renewable bot user certificates
include a **generation counter**.

The generation counter is stored against the user in the database and within the
certificate. This counter is incremented each time the user renews their 
certificate. When a bot attempts to renew, the Auth Server ensures that the 
value within the certificate and in the database match. If they do not match,
then the bot user is automatically locked. This means that if certificates are
stolen, and attempted to be renewed whilst the bot is still running, the next
renewal will render them useless.

## File permissions

There are two types of folder in use by `tbot`:

> - The bot's own files: these store sensitive credentials belonging to the bot
>   user itself. This is by default stored at `/var/lib/teleport/bot/`.

Reviewer: I think "bot user" could be a little misleading. Maybe something like this?

```suggestion
- The bot's own files: these store sensitive credentials belonging to the
  `tbot` process itself. This is by default stored at `/var/lib/teleport/bot/`.
```

It may also be worth mentioning what these credentials are (renewable, etc) to hopefully explain why they're sensitive?

- Directory destinations: when a directory destination is configured, the bot 
  outputs the role impersonated credentials as files in the specified directory.

It is important that we ensure that these files can only be accessed by the
fewest number of users on the system as is necessary.

In the case of the bot's own files, this should only be the user that the bot
runs as. Running `tbot init` as shown in the documentation should create and

> correctly configure the permissions for this.

Author: f4ba44362

In the case of directory destinations, the user the bot runs as requires read

> and write permissions, and users that will need to use the credentials output

Reviewer: nit: I think there's at least one too many senses of "user" at play here. Maybe "processes" or "readers" or something?

Author: Hmm, I agree, although "user" is definitely the most technically correct term, but "process" should be clear enough.

Author: f4ba44362

by the bot require read permissions. In most cases, this user that needs to read
the credentials should be specifically created for your application to run as.

In addition to basic POSIX filesystem permissions, `tbot` also sets up Linux
ACLs if the system supports it. This allows more granular control by granting

> individual users access.

Author: f4ba44362

---
title: Machine ID Architecture
description: How Teleport Machine ID works.
---

This section provides an overview of Teleport Machine ID's inner workings.

A more in-depth specification of the workings of Machine ID can be found in
[the Request For Discussion.](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/master/rfd/0064-bot-for-cert-renewals.md)

## Bot creation

> When creating a bot via `tctl`, up to three resources are created:

Reviewer 2: Which of these are optional/required? If it is up to three resources, what are the conditions where there would be less?

> When creating a bot via `tctl`, up to three resources are created:

Reviewer 3: I think this sentence would be a lot clearer in the active voice. What is doing the creating? When does this creation take place? What creates the resources?

Also, I think we should assume that a reader with any level of familiarity with Machine ID could visit this page. We should either begin with more fundamental information about Machine ID or explicitly make reading the Introduction/Getting Started pages a prerequisite for reading this page.

As it stands now, a reader who is just getting acquainted with Machine ID won't understand what "Bot creation" or "When creating a bot via `tctl`" mean.

Author: I would much rather make reading the introduction a pre-requisite of this page, otherwise, this architecture guides conciseness and usefulness to a more aware user is going to be hampered by constant re-explanation of terms a user with a cursory knowledge of Machine ID should understand.

- Bot user: this will be the user that the Machine ID agent authenticates as.
- Bot role: the bot user is assigned the bot role, and the bot role contains
  various permissions that the bot will need to function. For example, the
  ability to watch the certificate authorities and the ability to 
  [impersonate roles](#role-impersonation).
- Token: for [onboarding](#onboarding), a token must exist that allows the
  Machine ID agent to initially authenticate as the bot user. If an existing
  token is not specified, then a static single-use token will be created by the
  Auth Server.

## `tbot`

`tbot` is the binary that acts as the agent for Machine ID.

On initial load, `tbot` uses the [configured join method](#onboarding) to obtain
a set of credentials for the bot user from the Teleport Auth Service. It can 
then use these credentials to communicate with the Teleport Auth Service as the 
bot.

On a configured regular period `tbot` then:

> 1. Renews these bot user credentials

Reviewer 3: We should use bullets or short paragraphs instead of numbered lists where possible (https://goteleport.com/docs/contributing/documentation/style-guide/#lists).

> 2. For each destination provided in `tbot`'s configuration:

Reviewer 3: I think we should rephrase this sentence to assume that a reader doesn't know yet what a "destination" is, since it is the first mention of the term on this page.

>    1. Obtains [role impersonated](#role-impersonation) credentials for the roles

Reviewer 3: Would just "impersonated" instead of "role impersonated" work here? Otherwise, we'll need to use "role-impersonated" to form a compound modifier. 

It might be clearer to avoid the need to say "role impersonated credentials" by restructuring the sentence, e.g., "Uses impersonation to obtain credentials for the roles...".

      specified in the destination configuration from the Auth Service using the
      bot user credentials.
   2. Outputs these role impersonated credentials in various formats.

> Concurrently to this, `tbot` monitors the Teleport certificate authorities to

Reviewer 2: This sounds like tbot is mostly functioning as a daemon. Is there any reason we wouldn't want to use this terminology?

Author: I think `daemon` probably makes sense for most uses of `tbot` (but, it's worth mentioning it can also be used in a oneshot mode which is less daemon-like).

detect certificate rotations. When this occurs, it triggers additional renewals
to ensure that `tbot` has certificates signed by the newly rotated certificate
authority.

## Role Impersonation

> At the core of Machine ID is the concept of role impersonation.

Reviewer 3: Should we move this section before the `tbot` section, which relies on the concept of impersonation?

Role Impersonation allows a user to generate credentials with a set of requested
roles. The user does not have to hold these roles, but must have been granted 
permission to impersonate them. The impersonated credentials still include
the username of the user that generated them, so actions can be attributed to 
the user.

These credentials can then be used to complete any action that is allowed by the
role's configured permissions. 

In the case of Machine ID, the bot user is assigned a bot role, which includes 
permissions to impersonate the roles that the user has configured.

## Onboarding

Onboarding is the process by which `tbot` initially authenticates with the 

> Teleport auth service in order to receive credentials.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Teleport Auth Service in order to receive credentials.
```
We capitalize product names

> Machine ID leverages the existing Token resource within Teleport, with the

Reviewer 3: Is this a dynamic configuration resource? Should we say `token`?

Author: Changed this to `token`. Do I need to change this to "dynamic configuration resource" ? We seem to just use the term "resource" pretty ubiquitously in documentation already.

token containing an additional `botName` field that identifies the bot user
associated with the token. 

Machine ID currently supports two methods of joining that have some key
differences.

> Static Token:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Static token
```

- The name of the token is used as an opaque secret needed to join the Teleport 
  cluster. This means it must be stored and communicated securely.
- Once used, the token resource self-destructs. This means it can only be used 
  to join a single bot to a Teleport cluster.
- The certificates exchanged for the token are 

>   [renewable](#renewable-certificates).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  renewable, as we will explain in the next section.
```

> Dynamic join tokens (e.g AWS IAM):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Dynamic join tokens (e.g AWS IAM):
```

> - These tokens rely on some kind of external system that allows the bot to

Reviewer 2: Is there any reason we wouldn't want to refer to the "external system" as an "authority" of some kind to better reflect the role and sensitive position of the system?

  Token resource in Teleport that contains the configuration.
- The token can be used to join as many bots as you want, and do not self
  destruct in the same way that static tokens do.
- The certificates exchanged for the token are not renewable. When the bot wants
  to renew its certificates, it simply repeats the original join steps.

Where possible, you should prefer to use a dynamic join token over a static
token as this eliminates the need to handle a secret.

## Renewable certificates

Human Teleport users are not able to renew their credentials without
re-authenticating. As Machine ID must work without manual human intervention,
bots that have joined using static tokens are granted credentials that are
marked as renewable. This means that the bot can use these credentials to
fetch a new set of credentials with an expiry date further in the future.

In order to mitigate the risk of bot user credentials being stolen, and then
continually renewed by a malicious actor, renewable bot user certificates
include a **generation counter**.

The generation counter is stored against the user in the database and within the

> certificate. This counter is incremented each time the user renews their 

Reviewer 2: Does this counter truly increment or does it follow some other kind of random generation? What is preventing success of a brute force style attack based on a smaller subset of incremented values?

Author: Yes, this will be a monotonically increasing value. I'm not quite sure I understand the concerns re: brute force/dictionary style attack, this field is encoded within the certificate by the auth service and isn't a value provided by a client.

Reviewer 2: My mistake, I misunderstood, i see how the ephemeral token and user permission work together to lock things down if any attack is made, I must have admittedly been reading too quickly. Marking this as resolved and adding my approval, this describes something relatively complicated in a way that feels complete to me

certificate. When a bot attempts to renew, the Auth Server ensures that the 
value within the certificate and in the database match. If they do not match,
then the bot user is automatically locked. This means that if certificates are
stolen, and attempted to be renewed whilst the bot is still running, the next
renewal will render them useless.

## File permissions

There are two types of folder in use by `tbot`:

- The bot's own files: these store credentials belonging to the `tbot` process

>   itself. As this credentials are potentially renewable, and will allow the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  itself. As these credentials are potentially renewable, and will allow the
```

>   impersonation of any roles you have allowed for the bot user, they should be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  impersonation of any roles you have assigned to the bot user, they should be
```
To avoid repeating "allow"

>   treated as exceptionally sensitive. This is by default stored at 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  treated as exceptionally sensitive. The bot's own files are stored by default at 
```

  `/var/lib/teleport/bot/`.
- Directory destinations: when a directory destination is configured, the bot 
  outputs the role impersonated credentials as files in the specified directory.

It is important that we ensure that these files can only be accessed by the
fewest number of Linux processes and users on the system as is necessary.

In the case of the bot's own files, it is best practice to create a Linux user

> specifically for running `tbot` as and to ensure that only this user has access

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
specifically for running `tbot` and to ensure that only this user has access
```

---
title: Machine ID Architecture
description: How Teleport Machine ID works.
---

This section provides an overview of Teleport Machine ID's inner workings.

A more in-depth specification of the workings of Machine ID can be found in
[the Request For Discussion.](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/master/rfd/0064-bot-for-cert-renewals.md)

> ## Role Impersonation

Reviewer: I don't know if we want to include them in this PR or a follow-up, but a couple other sections that might be useful:
* Onboarding, especially the differences between token and IAM joining
* Renewable certificates and the generation counter / detecting stolen certs
* File permissions (or: how Machine ID ensures destinations are only readable by the target application)

At the core of Machine ID is the concept of role impersonation.

Role Impersonation allows a user to generate credentials with a set of requested
roles. The user does not have to hold these roles, but must have been granted 

> permission to impersonate them. The role impersonated credentials still includes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
permission to impersonate them. The impersonated credentials still include
```

the username of the user that generated them, so actions can be attributed to 
the user.

These credentials can then be used to complete any action that is allowed by the
role's configured permissions. 

> In the case of Machine ID, the bot user is assigned a bot role, which includes 

Reviewer 3: At this point in the page, we don't know what a bot user is yet and how it operates in a Teleport cluster. We should probably introduce that before we talk about role impersonation.

permissions to impersonate the roles that the user has configured.

## `tbot`

> `tbot` is the binary that acts as the agent for Machine ID.

Reviewer 3: What does "acts as the agent" mean in this context? Are there any architectural components of Machine ID besides `tbot`?

Author: Well, the main Teleport auth service and proxy do participate in what we might call "Machine ID" as a whole, but `tbot` is the agent/client in all situations.

> On initial load, `tbot` uses the configured join method to obtain a set of

Reviewer 3: What does "configured join method" mean?

> credentials for the bot user from the Teleport auth service. It can then use

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
credentials for the bot user from the Teleport Auth Service. It can then use
```

> these credentials to communicate with the Teleport auth service as the bot.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
these credentials to communicate with the Teleport Auth Service as the bot.
```

On a configured regular period `tbot` then:

- Renews these bot user credentials

> - For each configured destination:

Reviewer 3: What does "configured destination" mean here?

>   - Obtains role impersonated credentials from the auth service using its

Reviewer 3: What does "role impersonated" mean here?

Author: Hm, this is explained by the section on Role Impersonation above. Is there a way I could better make that connection obvious ?

>   - Obtains role impersonated credentials from the auth service using its

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Obtains role impersonated credentials from the Auth Service using its
```

    bot user credentials.

>   - Outputs these role impersonated credentials in the configured formats.

Reviewer 3: We haven't introduced format configuration yet—what formats would these be?
